okay uh welcome everyone um I'm going to
uh call to order the town of Andover
Board of Selectmen meeting for Monday
June 10th uh 2024 and we're going to
start the meeting at
7:02 the first order of business is the
uh Pledge of
Allegiance I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the Republic for which it stands
one nation under God indivisible with
liberty and justice for
all okay um we'll move on to U public
speak and we'll start with uh Mike pazi
before you you take another bite
Mike oh you can see me no I'm all set
thank you all right Kathy uh nothing
other than I want to say uh very nice
agenda this evening thank you for that
okay all right Linda fish all set thank
you all right Louise
Goodwin I'm all set but Joe King is here
and find this thing he may have
something to hold on ask hang on I had
uh I had uh noticed that in the River
East that one of the towns had an
ordinance I believe to keep uh the
advertising signs that you see stuck on
right ways and um I don't know do we
have any ordinance like like
that Eric Jeff I don't you guys know
anything about that not for that
specific issue I know there's signage
ordinance out there
but we can look at that Joe Joe you sit
there and you put something forward we
can look at
it mean like I propose that we have
ordinance uh Banning those RightWay
signs um put in by private companies
they're in the way for Jay as well to do
his okay so you do
that um anything
else Noe that's it
okay uh Diane
grer not working yet you're good okay
all right someone
um let's try to go through this and see
who's causing us back issues I think
somebody just muted themselves so that's
good thank
you okay um
think you skipped Linda
fish uh I did not I asked Linda fish oh
sorry she was good um Eric I'm gonna ask
then I know Jeff Murray brought it up
but can you please make sure that the
town of the the selectman minutes
meetings are not special meetings
they're regular meetings can we get that
out of there for the next time it's
happened twice and um both times we've
um not included ads and deletes and I
apologize for not catching that um Jeff
Murray nice catch on
the special meeting um so we're gonna
add and delete something pretty quick
um uh I'm gonna make
a a motion
that Eric where
is which is the one item you want to
move so I'm gonna suggest that you move
executive
session uh to uh pretty early in the
meeting agenda uh to discuss Union and
just leave it as Union
negotiations um and go from there and
invite my sh myself and Cheryl into the
meeting okay and is there an item 15
currently no I I know that I know that's
executive session but is there an item
on the agenda other than the executive
session that we need to move for
Cheryl uh you
could uh also
move um what is item number 10 the
treasures report up uh and make that
right after the executive session okay
so I make a motion that we move
executive session up to item
2A and we move item 10 treasurers report
up to
2B anybody want to second that for us
second
it okay um is there anything else Eric
that we should move related to Cheryl so
we can get her on and off as quick as
possible uh no I think that should be it
okay anybody have anything they'd like
to add or delete
um do we want to discuss the ordinance
the minor ordinance down at the uh ball
fields for the
dogs yes why not yeah we need to add
that was we'll add that to new business
um
8i is that acceptable Jeff yes that's
fine right 8 I I just saw there was a
lot of complaints uh online and and uh
in social media and so we should we
should address it at this meeting
right all right so you're making a
motion to move a dog ordinance
discussion ball I I'd like to menend
that dog ordinance and littering
ordinance disc
discussion I don't think it's it needs
to be added I
don't 8i dog and litter ordinance
okay I'll second so Jeff Murray made
that motion Paul a second did so we now
have three items to move anything
else okay all those in favor of moving
uh executive session to
2A uh the treasurers report
2B and the adding a dog and litter
ordinance discussion on 8i all those in
favor I uh
okay so um Linda uh Mike and Kathy and
Diane and Community voice and now Joanne
Ebert we're going to put you guys all
into uh the waiting room and we're going
to go into executive session and uh have
our discussion about the union issues
and it will come out as quickly as we
can so apologize for this but it's how
we're going to do it so uh I make a
motion that uh
we go into executive session item 2A a
second all right all those in favor I
will presume recording all right I'll
make a motion that we come out of
executive
session second first done all right
let's uh move on uh we're moving on to
item 2B the treasurers report so Cheryl
if you can review the report the
documentation that you provided yes in
our packet yes um in your packet uh well
when when I send all the items over to
um Kate there is a PDF of your budget
actual there is also an Excel format of
the budget to actual um the board had
financed several members had requested
that I send over um it in that format so
they could change up um the font and be
able to read it a little bit better your
report um has a lot of pages and it's a
little bit difficult sometimes to read
um you also this time have a balance
sheet within your report and the reason
we have a balance sheet now is the
Auditors had released the um audited
financial statements all of the journal
entries have been made so that means
that the report that you are receiving
currently um although it's marked as an
intrum because it's the new uh 2324 you
will receive a balance sheet um
currently while we are getting ready
again to have another
audit all entries have been made all of
the do too froms have been included and
we're still we have a few items that
were um overspent in the budget um but
that's not unusual we normally by the
next two weeks I know Eric and I are
meeting tomorrow potentially to look
over some of our requests for transfer
that I will give to the board of Finance
at their meeting at the end of the month
I will be attending that one to
request we have notified Department all
bills have to be submitted to uh the
treasurer's office for payment for the
23 24 year no later than August 15
unless permission is given or there's an
uh an extreme reason why the bills could
not be presented any bills presented
after that date um will go to the board
of Finance for their decision on whether
it's going to be in the 23 24 year or
the
2425 year
everything looks good um we've gotten a
lovely amount of interest income if you
guys have all managed to see that from
placing our funds in the stiff account
um so Eric and I look at that on a
monthly basis and we move whatever we
can potentially move over to the
stiff um from our current banking
institution and move it back as needed
to pay current operating
expenses um Cheryl one one thing I'm
looking at your ballot sheet uh just a
quick question
um other communities do they move all of
their funds into the stiff account I
mean right now we have uh you're at
least reporting that there's $1.5
million sitting in the AAS operating
fund operating account is that accurate
no it is not because I I get their
documents about a month
after so the documents that you have
there I don't get all of their I can't
see everything that's clearing or
everything that's um being affected into
their AES checking until I get the bank
statement uh which Eric had been
obtaining for me um and then when we get
uh Eric ass signed check runs for them I
we do enter them in but we certainly are
not I do not have all the information
for the 23 24 year I did meet with the
um Finance director for the school about
two weeks ago and we have a plan to uh
align our books um before the audit and
review our numbers to make sure what
they have is what I have
um and then we have spoken about trying
to uh come up with a plan between she
and I uh to attempt to reconcile on a
monthly basis but we're still working on
a potential procedure for that okay
understood but can you um at some point
in time get us um even though it might
not match the financial statements can
you get us the most recent reconciled
balance just so we can understand
because what I'm what I have in my head
is you know there's 2.5 or $2.8 million
of money that's still not collecting
interest and if it can be shifted even
somewhat that's a significant more
portion of
Interest
so I I understand we
are their budget they receive and please
correct me Eric if I'm wrong whatever
their budget amount as approved and adop
opted by the citizens um they receive
over 10 month period is that is that
right Eric that is correct so I can't I
can't you know I can't say that you've
got $600,000 sitting in your bank
account so no I'm not going to give you
your three or 400,000 I I don't know how
I would be able to to tell that to the
school that I'm going to invest it for
you um and only give it to you when when
I think you need it I
the board has some suggestions I'm I'm
willing but I can't make them give it
back to me understand understood but
what I'm saying is it's it's something
that we have to look at as a community
to sit there and especially where the
interest rates are where they're at and
try to maximize what we're doing so we
can't make any decisions or talk in any
educated manner until we understand what
the balance was at the last time they
reconciled so if you can just provide us
the balance at the last time they
reconciled and then we can all look and
just say hey maybe our apportionment of
our funding is not accurate and we can
do it in a better way it has nothing to
in my head has nothing to do with the
budgeted amount or do they get their
money or not get their money it's it's
timing and if we as a town can sit there
and keep more money in an interest
earning account we're all better off so
we just need a balance number so we can
understand like maybe a list of whatever
monthly reconciliations they've provided
you and S sit there and just tell us the
number like 400,000 600,000 a million
whatever it is it would just
help yes when I I will be in the office
on Wednesday morning I will go through
my uh folders and see I'm pretty sure
the last one that I received from them
is March but I am not 100% sure um I
certainly will look and whichever one I
have I will scan it I'll have it scanned
and I will email it um to you Jeff for
your distribution okay no
problem all right um any other questions
anybody
has okay if we don't have any other
questions
then I think we can allow Cheryl to to
leave us anybody going once going twice
no thank you Cheryl all right thanks
you're welcome thank you very much thank
you I will talk to everyone later thank
youbye all right so now we're going to
move on to um item three board and
commission presentations the library
board of directors is that on by
mistake um I actually don't know the
answer to
that
okay but if none of directors are here
to speak then I would say yes I did get
something from Kathy saying the final
contract for the bathroom renovation is
ready to sign I have not reviewed it she
did email that to me today um I will get
to that at some point in the next couple
of days okay and I'm on the board
Library board of directors
and I think that that um item was from
last month when Jeff um Ballard was
going to talk about the burnap brook the
Bap
clock and he's not in here and we're not
prepared for anything
else okay um I will say that the library
threw a wonderful retirement function
for and I'm gonna say the name because
Kathy
camp Camp Kathy camping was very nice um
uh 25 years as the uh children's
librarian um it was very nice so Eric
attended she's going to be hard to
replace uh Lisa Curts is going to be
filling in that
position she's already done it for a
while and it's gonna do that for the
summer anyway all right um all right
we'll move on to that uh Eric uh item
four appointments anything
uh as far as I know there aren't any
appointments um next month you will have
a series of appointments to make for the
advisory committees for the senior
center uh director okay
um those July one yep item five
resignations yes I was uh Jim hsy told
me verbally that he would submit a
letter of resignation
um but he's willing to stay on until we
can find his replacement um which is a
big help um you know again I think I'm
asking for the maximum amount of
flexibility and trying to find that
replacement because they're very hard
positions to find and fill today um so
we're going to go after advertising it
directly locally and then also pursue
potentially hiring Tai Chi
uh to provide that person to us as a
service so I don't know how that's going
to work yet um we're basically going to
try all approaches we can um because I
anticipate based on problems other towns
have had that that would be a difficult
position to
fill okay do whatever you need to
do if
you okay we'll move on to item it six
town administrator's
report okay so I gave you all my report
uh individually I apologize for not
making it in the packet I will give it
to Kate so she can put it or no it did
make the packet no it did not make the
packet sorry um so what I'm gonna tell
you is I'm just gonna kind of summarize
uh what was in the packet so that you
have it um the first thing is under Town
Hall
operations uh Willie and Susan are going
to start reglazing and Rec scraping the
windows on the
museum Oldtown Hall that project is
going to start uh very quickly in the
next week or two um just as a reminder I
will be on vacation the weeks of June
17th to the 21st in June 24th through
the 28th although unfortunately now I do
have a funding meet that's mandatory for
one of the grants so I will probably
briefly uh be in on the 27th or uh or at
least call into that um in terms of that
I'll make sure this Friday before I go
that I've updated all the payroll so so
that portion will be done from my
perspective um Jeff I'm going to give
your phone number directly to uh to
Chris so she can call you when she need
checks signed so there'll be at least
one check run during that possibly two
during that week so hopefully uh you
will be around because right now the
only three signers are you myself and uh
the superintendent
Val um so the other things I've got
going um you know as we discussed
previously we did get the grant award
for for the uh lsip for Route 316 the
connectivity
prodject uh I finally got a quoteback to
get us to the 60% design phase um using
the existing funds from the legislative
award so when we get to that in the
budget I would just like a motion from
the board to authorize me to sign a
contract to spend the rest of the
legislative funds to get us up through
the 60% design
phase um and since we uh since the
original RFP was a competitive bid I
don't think we need to rebid it because
you know we're going to use the
engineering firm that started the work
and already done part of the
surve um I also had a meeting at kog
with Rob aloise who's one on the kog
planning staff to talk about how the
funding and the timelines for that
project Works um and I was kind of wrong
because I know as a as a kog board
member you know we were we were
allocating funding out to the
2627 budget year but what Rob said is
they have kind of rolling funding um
because most projects don't get through
the design phase all that fast so the
long and the short of it is as soon as
we can get that
design it fully designed and approved by
do and get the rightaway stuff in place
um we'll have the money for construction
so that's kind of
encouraging um uh as you as I sent you
we did get funded the grant submission
for the D wck Trails
program
um
so that's the fourth time I've applied
direct trails and the first time I got
funded so persistence pays off I was
kind of happy with that um I still
haven't heard anything back from the
Congressional as far as the
Congressional appropriation I know we
did the paperwork correctly and and we
received acknowledgement that we
submitted it but we're not going to get
anything back till at least October on
that and that is the grant that would
fund the uh the generator that would
cover the town hall the fire department
and the community Center as well as
finish off uh improvements on the
community center um the propane tanks
and gas piping are into the town hall
and the community center and uh the new
two new 1,000 gallon tanks are in all
the conduit is in for the future
generator project so everything's pretty
well prepped for that project we just
got to get the money to actually buy the
generator
uh and the stuff
HVAC um and heating system upgrades for
the town hall will be completed within
the next one to two days um all the
duckus split systems work in the
building um all the brick repair has
been done um the system's functioning
well they're just working on on
converting the burners
to propane from oil right now so that
should be done and they're already
starting to work on the fire department
uh HVAC upgrades that's been a kind of
sore subject with the fire department
who haven't liked not having an air
conditioned building which I don't blame
them um so we did finally get a proposal
back from uh Aztec engineering for the
Mechanical ecal plumbing evaluation for
AES I'll discuss that later in the
project came out of a little higher than
I was expecting but not uh a lot higher
um uh you all got the information I sent
you on the Freedom of Information Act
request um there was also an incident at
Andover Pizza in which an
individual uh um ended up assaulting two
other individuals that were both seniors
so he's been arrested um and dealt with
it's not certainly is not his first uh
violent felony apparently so um he's
still in jail um both of the victims
were uh you know are recovering and are
expected to recover so um it's very
unfortunate um but fortunately it it uh
nobody was killed um and the the uh bar/
pizza parlor has good camera coverage so
the state police have kind of a pretty
full record of of what occurred and
where and what um
so um that's all I have to say about
that uh unless there's something else
you want on it um you also asked me last
month to give you an update on what
Diane Grenier was concerned with
regarding the natural gas uh
pipeline um and potential modifications
in centry so I did talk to coventry's
town engineer Todd Penny pretty
extensively about that um and basically
what they have is there is an existing
pumping station in
centry um
basically I assume it's just a series of
fans which accelerate the gas so keep
the flow rate of the existing natural
gas and the pipes High um what they're
talking about doing is putting in
different fans than the one they have
now so it's not anything that's going to
involve Trucking um there would be a
construction phase but likely um they
would be going up hop River Road not uh
Andover town roads anyway so it should
have zero impact to the town of
Andover um Community Center update
the community center is coming along
pretty well um I think we should
probably discuss that there is an agenda
item later to potentially set a date um
for a grand opening I would uh discuss
anything else with that so the uh we did
select a company called
SLR to provide construction monitoring
and inspection for the Bunker Hill
Bridge Project that project is still
slated to begin
on uh
February I think it's 16th actually um
there is a issue that has come up right
now um that the department of
uh the Federal Department of Wildlife
and natural resources has added another
bat to the threatened species list for
all eight counties in
Connecticut um and they put a very
restrictive ruling in on the limit of
the time of year in which you can uh do
what's called clearing and Dr grubbing
I.E cutting down trees and taking away
the debris
um uh so we're trying to figure out how
to work around that now um the last time
they did that was about 10 years ago and
D ended up or do ended up pretty much
all of their Bridge projects took an
extra year to do to deal with that
Federal
requirement um so we're going to
actually talk to the land owners right
now um we don't have the RightWay
easements established although we have
them surveyed so I'm going to talk to
the land owners and with their
permission we're going to do the tree
cutting like right now like in July um
and not do it as part of the Federal
grant it means we'll have to cut the
trees um you know probably on the town
side and not get rebated for that but
since the whole rest of the bridge is
being paid for um you know that as far
as I can tell right now is the only
thing that will keep us away from that
being a two-year project not a one-year
project um so for the cost of taking
down those trees it seems an awful lot
smarter to do that um and there's only
three land owners involved so I don't
think it's going to be a big deal
um but that was a little bombshell the
federal government dropped on the do uh
about a week ago so we're working
through that
um that is all I have unless you have
questions about anything
specific for
me anybody have any questions for Eric
no good good call on the trees though
Eric and are you going to remind us
about the bridge
meeting uh yeah so there there's
actually two Bridge
meetings um we're having a
meeting at the Bunker Hill Bridge with
myself and Jay
uh and the design engineer and possibly
do to talk about you know what limits
what we actually have to cut down you
know like right now um before the the
federal law actually is
um you know enacted enacted um so um I
have no doubt we're going to be able to
do that
um uh
and to say the this has got everybody
freaked out I know I've had a couple
meetings one with do over one with the
East Coast Greenway folks because that's
they've got a bunch of federally funded
programs um so everybody's you know in a
little bit of a dizzy uh about it U
because what happens is the the federal
government notifies all the states that
this is in effect and they have to put
the Restriction in all their grants and
all the construction documents but they
don't actually know what the seasonality
of these things are they don't know
where exactly in the state these bats
are present they just know they're
endangered they're found in the state
and therefore they have this blanket
restriction and it'll take a couple
years to work out the specifics of it so
it's kind of a you know it's kind of an
unfortunate thing not bad is
it you know Brown something
B large brown bat small brown
bat um okay um anything
else not for my
report okay everybody's
good okay we're going to move on to item
seven old business business and we're
going to start with 7A Community Center
construction
update so uh today uh Eric Sanders sent
me a
construction uh punch list of everything
for the interior of the building um I
review that Scott did I forward that to
you or
not thought I will forward that to you
um I was going to go over it walk the
building with it and look through that
and see what else needed to be on that
Bunch list um for the interior portion
of the building
um U then Scott and I have scheduled
some time tomorrow to start going over
because for the two weeks I'm gone Scott
will be taking over for me doing
the construction Administration stuff
from
ourn um we're pretty close to to
completion um the fact that we've gotten
to the punch list portion um means we're
pretty far
along um most of you have probably seen
that it's paved and curbed now so uh the
electrician's been in working um leading
edges guys have been in
working um and you know it's it's pretty
close to to final
completion um
so we're getting
there I know some changes have been made
to the exterior um
[Music]
the
um there's some rip wrap put in Eric
please make sure you get with Scott on
that and and the one thing that I'm
going to suggest and
in as much as possible this is a um
public facility and we make it appear
the best possible way we can the
driveway looks great I would let you
already told you that Eric it looks
great the building looks great let to
make sure the rounds maintain the same
level that we all expect across
everything all right anybody else
related to
the community
center okay all business B is there
anything to discuss on the blight and
the level of
involvement uh no at this point other
than uh we're going to need a
new uh zoning enforcement officer who is
the blight enforcement officer so B and
C I don't really have anything to talk
about at this
meeting
um oh I'm gonna question ebike loner
program anybody have any questions or
issues okay D advisory boards for the
senior community
center I know we've gotten some replies
back I've asked the town clerk to
collate them they were due July one um
so at our next at the next Board of
selecting meeting I hope to have a good
candidate pool for you to select the
members for
okay um item
7e uh senior community Cent
director so the advertisement uh has
gone out today we
advertised um River East we advertised
locally we had several locals that have
expressed interest to it so we sent them
the notifications directly we also
advertised on CCM
uh and indeed to try to get as wide a
candidate pool um as we could for that
position um I did ask
the I think our official title is like
director of community programming at
centry so centry instead of having one
person as the Director they have a head
of their senior center and a head of a
community center and a head of
recreation and then they have one person
that sits over those three so I had a
good conversation with her um and asked
her whether she would be willing to sit
in on the interviews when uh we hire our
director and she said she would be happy
to um so um I would assume it will be
myself and her and probably at least one
or two members of the board of
Selectmen um my goal is as soon as I
come back around July 1st to colay all
the responses we've had and start
setting up interviews so Jeff I know you
had said you wanted to be on that um if
there other board of selectman members
that want to be in on on that uh
interview panel um please let me
know all right we're we're going to move
on to item eight new
business um 8A is it says a charter
revision draft but it should State
Charter revision draft
extension
um the charter revision commission is uh
and I'm going to make the motion but is
looking for some additional time uh we
have a July 3rd deadline to present the
draft to the board of Selectmen it come
earlier but they would like U an
extension so I'm going to make a motion
that um we Grant uh an extension for the
first draft to be presented to the board
of Selectmen till July
22nd I'll second down right any further
discussion on the extension of time what
it will mean for us is that we may be
required to have a special meeting um so
uh my what I'm going to request from the
charter revision committee and is get
you get a draft much earlier than than
it has to be presented um depending upon
what feedback we can provide before the
draft is there I'm not sure but
hopefully uh we'll get it in advance of
the 22nd and then have a meeting on the
22nd and decide what we're going to do
whether we approve or reject any of the
the items
so that's it any other questions related
to the
extension sure all those in favor I I I
okay five
nothing um let's move on to
8B um motion to approve payment to U
line for Community Center
Furniture so youall got a note from
Cheryl uh so I had ordered the stuff for
the community center after a discussion
last month where you said I was okay to
uh tap contingency given the position
we're in right now overall with the
budget um Cheryl felt it was a large
enough order that that really needed a
motion before the board of Selectmen
that she thought that would come up as
an audit flag um so we would be smarter
to have the board formally motion the
approval of that what's the amount of
the Uline bills
is like 11,000 12,000 15,000 somewhere
in that ballpark it's
12,266
36 I'm sorry I hit something 30 what
cents 12
26636 um I make a motion that we approve
the Uline bills uh for Community Center
furniture that total
$2,266 36
Cents I'll
second all right further discussion on
that approval this is just for inside
furniture only right this is not the
external Furniture like the polywood
stuff any of that uh I did not buy the
polywood stuff I did buy the two metal
picnic tables
okay because I did find some vendors
that had it for much cheaper than you
had on your sheet so we should probably
discuss that before any of that's
purchased okay
um any other issues points of discussion
all those in favor
I I okay
um item 8 C select a date for Community
Center Grand
Opening what's your what's your
recommended recommendation Eric when do
you want to do it pick a
day well it it's not when I want to do
it it's when you guys wanted to do how
about you give us the week or the two
weeks that you think we should be doing
it and then we'll come up with a date I
mean at this point I think we're
probably looking at putting it off till
sometime very early in August and it's
going to kind of depend on what exactly
you want at the Grand Opening um how
formal and who all you want to invite in
what do you want to have do you want to
have wine and cheese do you want to have
a band what is it that you want do you
just want to cut a ribbon and Pat each
other on the back and go home tell me
what you want and then that has some
bearing on how long it's going to take
us to put it
together I never thought of Handover as
a wine and cheese place I was just gonna
say beer and nachos um cupcakes cupcakes
and uh a band I don't know um yeah why
don't we make it a potluck I I think
more Andor potluck standup picnic and
bring our
own food um and maybe have some hot dogs
and hamburgers but I I think it should
be something where we invite the
community to at least go and see
what they're going to have the
opportunity to utilize so
um if you want to do it in the beginning
of August let's just
um can we can we coordinate this with a
a senior or lunch
in well the if you do it that way then
it excludes the people that are working
during the day on a Friday yeah okay so
what we doing on Saturday that's the
first questions what you want to do it
on a Saturday if you did it on a
Saturday you could probably pick like I
think August
3 um that's the first Saturday or August
10th either of those
would probably work all right does
anybody have any issue with August 3
we'll start there should we talk to the
uh Recreation Commission too because I
saw there was a concert uh coming up I
saw a sign at the school road so well
why don't want to book a concert or
something that night or something it's
just do in conjunction with the hot dogs
and hamburgers they may they want to do
something for that
so two dates why don't we pick two dates
to talk to them about
because if you're going to if you're
trying to book a band you want to make
sure that you have a couple of dates in
mind because you have to find out if
they're
available okay so yeah my thing is if
they're doing a if they're going to do a
concert or something anyways let's do it
let's do it all on the same
day so are you think that there's a
concert already booked would it be on
the calendar the Tom calendar it's not
on the
calendar I saw a sign for a concert
coming up so I don't know yeah but that
that's on the
this month yeah I'm just saying I don't
know I don't know what's booked out into
August so we should probably check with
them and see what they're planning on
doing too and and engage them as a part
of the
process does anyone have
um does anyone have a problem with
either the third or their 10th as being
the dates to
investigate I have no problem with
either one of the
days no all right so so uh Eric if you
can can you get with
um uh the recreation committee
commission and see if they have
any
um anything scheduled for either one of
those days and if they do we'll try to
put it on that date so if they have a
potential concert we'll sit there and
kind of coordinate it together and
Okay then if this if all of us would
like to work together to figure out what
we would like to include in let's try to
make this as Community oriented as we
can and get as many people as we can
there are we gonna in go ahead Paul I
was gonna say we should probably invite
Steve
we people you
know
and we can invite any of our
Representatives it would be no
problem oh and by the way Steve we made
the
library was very nice yeah
um do we W to I mean I don't know what
what we're thinking about for that day
but maybe do we want to have a little
entertainment for the younger younger
generation like a well let's get the
date and then we'll figure all the rest
of that out yeah I think the rec
commission can really help with that CU
I like I I second your your your
suggestion Paul like the balance house
and I mean even get Jeff balard and like
the the community garden and stuff
because people could check out the
garden and all the things we have going
on
so I think it be I think it'd be kind of
a good thing just to kind of bring
everything together and they can give
tours we can do stuff with the fire
department well with Eric being away for
two
weeks
um I just feel like we have to jump on
this but he's also G he also has to
close in on some stuff while he's way so
um Eric I'll work with you on this to
keep the ball rolling okay okay and the
wreck commission does have a meeting
tomorrow night so I can try to ask that
question of of Carol um and get her
seeing whether they have a commitment on
either of those days and figure out what
uh
what that would
be okay anybody else have any other
issues related to this grand
opening figure we all work together and
make it'll make it
work yeah and we can also Diane granier
has a note in our chat we can also work
with the library committee and we can
also work with the town um Scott yans
and open up the museum for that day
maybe and sit there and see what we can
do um okay I think that'll be excellent
we all work together on that
one uh okay so at this point you want
some sort of barbecue slash
cookout um do what would be your
preference in terms of time like four
o'clock noon what is it do you want to
do lunchtime do you want to do more
dinner
time um what is it that you want to
do well why don't we plan on doing the
opening and the shovel turns at noon and
then let people come and go during the
day especially if we have the bounce
house and you have different things and
then if you're GNA have a concert you're
gonna have the concert all up four
o'clock five o'clock six o'clock yeah
let's let's talk to recommission and
figure out what they want to do first
because I my my ideal times would
probably be like 4 to8 or 3 to S
something like that that's fine
y let's find the date
need to get the seniors involved in this
somehow um find something for
them not sure what yet
but let find the date first yeah they
would they would probably enjoy the band
I would think yeah yeah it's the number
of come depends what kind of band you
get you get death metal probably not
listen don't you never know they you
know they they are very open-minded our
seniors
I know that the one they have the
library sponsored concerts that those
are good a lot of seniors are out that
those are the ones I've gone to I
know yeah I mean is is that what you
want or do you wantan a like a jazz Trio
well I was gonna say wine and cheese and
then have like a jazz Trio playing in
the the community uh the big room of the
building but I'm thinking I'm thinking
of
fiddle like some blue
grass maybe we could get James Taylor if
you really if you're serious about Blu
grass uh Amy or lamasi will she can hook
us up with some blue grass bands if
that's the way you want to go I don't
have a problem with that I like blue
brass let's get a date and then we'll
all figure out what we can
do so and and Jeff Murray is 100% right
have the rec commission sit there and
you know communicate and we'll talk to
the seniors and we'll talk to the
library and we'll try to get everybody
involved and participate in this and
Paulie you're in charge of the music my
recommendation was only a
recommendation right and it the only
thing I will say we're not doing is
we're not do well I would do
jazz but we we we'll have a little wine
and cheese for you Eric if that's okay
all right I'll Supply my own wine I I
wine plenty so that's not a problem
there you go okay
uh let's move on to um item
8D Board of selectman future goal
meeting can we do that at our next Board
of selectman
meeting anybody have a
problem we
can
um but that could end up being a pretty
big time suck that might not be a bad
thing to do as a standalone meeting um
if you were going to do it as part of a
regular Board of Select meeting one of
my suggestions would be that every Board
of Selectmen member comes with one idea
they want to see implemented in the next
two years and start with that as the
basis of your
meeting um well let's get some input
from everybody else would you like to do
a special meeting would you like to do
this separately would you like to have
wine and cheese at my house and have the
meeting I mean what are we doing related
to I I think it should be I think it
should be a separate meeting so we don't
feel rushed to get on to the rest of the
agenda I think if we dedicate a solid
hour to it or hour and a half in person
somewhere um then that we just don't
feel inclined to rush through it to get
get on to the of our business
um why don't we schedule it for August
in the new community
center okay I mean I would like to see
some emails from everybody to say you
know maybe we're all on the same page
you know like maybe we just send a note
to each other saying our top three
priori is like something we'd want to
work on and then we can just align all
those and see what you know I mean we
may be all alined on our
priorities okay so hob up before the
next meeting Jeff we all sit there and
shoot a a copy all or send an email to
everybody about what we'd like to see
the the
town tackle and get accomplished yeah we
can roll that up and then we'll hit them
one by one and we'll decide what our
priorities are all right so before our
our let let's do this before our July
meeting we all shoot an email to each
other and then at our July meeting we'll
set a timeline or time for an in-person
meeting because I do think Paul it would
be good for us to have this as a
in-person meeting I think it would be
good for us to have it at the new
building think it would be
positive
okay okay anybody else have any other
issues on that or want to further
discuss
that okay okay let's move on to
AE discussion regarding the route 316
design Eric what do you got okay so I
apologize I did not get it to you
earlier I only got this thing about one
o'clock this
afternoon uh but Barton and Le Judas
finally gave me back
proposal um for just the to get us to
basically 60% design phase piggyback on
the existing RFB this would cover
full-blown land surveying the wetlands
delineation um and spend the bulk of the
money on site development in other words
design of the actual uh getting to a
more finalized engineered design um of
the trail um that uses up the remaining
grant money that we had in our our
Congressional not congal legislative
appropriation uh
it will still leave us short of final
design but it gets us a long way towards
it and it's probably you know five or
six months work um and gets us to the
point where it goes to do for full-blown
doot review um so that's what I'm
shooting for at this point um and then
probably six months down the road we're
going to have to figure out where we
pull funding for to get us to 100%
design because while we have two and a
half or $2.9 million in construction
funding lsip doesn't cover design so a
lot of the design is covered via the the
legislative appropriation but there will
be probably some money Town money um and
we can talk about that in the future
whether we tap Lo siip for that or what
uh how we get there um so but what I
would like now if you're guys are okay
with it is a motion to allow me to
sign a engineering contract with Barton
and ludus to spend the last
$42,500 of our legislative appropriation
to get that project to the 60% design
phase and just so we understand it it is
a significant amount of money there's a
contract with Barton Le Judith that
we're not going to run a all of our
purchasing
guidelines we shouldn't because we
basically we went to RFP to hire an
engineering firm to get us through this
process so um the the first phase of it
essentially was get us to the grant
writing stage get a preliminary design
proposal pick a root understand the m
major issues um and do initial survey
work and then this is the second phase
of that which is we've now got the
construction Grant now we have to get a
finalized
design as long as you're telling me that
we're good on the purchasing policy yes
we're good on our purchasing policy up
through this point all right talk about
that again when we have to actually
start spending taxpayer dollars which
might occur in six months but we can
talk about the timing of that and you
know whether we wait and budget for it
fiscally or whether we go after one of
our existing pots a month but there's
nothing we're we're doing as far as this
that violates our purchase policy okay
anybody El any other questions for Eric
related to this
okay so I'll make a
motion that
we how do you want to phrase Derek that
we pay or that we I mean you've
already I would just motion to authorize
me to sign you know a phase two contract
with Barton and Le Judas so I make a
motion that we authorize uh the Town
Administrator to uh sign
a contract for designed services to get
designed services to 60% on the Route 16
route 316 design project
project that wased terrible I really
screwed that one up but thank you for
seconding that bad motion
Paul all right uh anything else on this
motion all those in favor by by okay
let's move
on um 8f public information meeting for
the lon
Hill Road
Bridge right I sent this to you
separately um and we did put an invite
up on the uh I think the town's Facebook
page there will be a public
informational meeting on the L Hill Road
Bridge Project and I also sent to the
the PDFs in the slide deck U for that
presentation so it would be nice if a
couple Board of selectman members came
um but not strictly necessary what's the
date Eric
again
uh really good
question let's look at my calendar
July
9th
tough I think you're right but I'm not
positive on the
top got it
y sorry I should have had that in the
packet so basically at this
the uh
company um will go over the proposal um
the Reps from the uh Connecticut uh do
will be there and uh after that um we
will
select um you know kind of based on
their guidance unless there's a major
objection to it um they have a preferred
construction type um based out based on
cost and Longevity long-term maintenance
which is what was included in the packet
in in that slide deck so they present
that they get feedback from the public
um it's one of the requirements and
after that uh do will sign off on the
bridge type for that project um and that
will essentially be uh the 30% design
phase um for that project um then
there'll be several on-site Mee ings
um and everybody will from the utility
company on down will provide additional
information as well all the various
different Departments of
do um and then it will be assigned to a
company uh to do the actual bridge
design so that's kind of where we are in
the process for that
bridge but the public meeting is the
next part
okay anybody else have any other
questions related to that
item okay we're going to move on to 8G
wck Trail Grant
award uh so at this point this is just a
notification to all of you that we
did receive the wreck Trails Grant um
which I was kind of stoked at I did not
think I was going to get it um because I
had had some conversations with uh Bruce
uh
Donald um who is one of the people
that's on the selection panel um and
this program gets an enormous number of
applications um so I was quite uh happy
that uh they were willing to fund the
design portion um and the way this works
is typically if they fund the design
they will come back a couple years later
and fund the actual
construction um there are a couple other
programs we can look to for funding for
this once we've got a full-fledged
design um but you know that's it's nice
that we were able to fund this because
the design would have been expensive
enough I wouldn't have I wouldn't have
tried to do that with just Town dollars
so that's all I got on that unless you
have other questions regarding that
no congratulations great job um it is
something I Jeff Murray had some an
interesting email and some interesting
ideas we should sit there and all think
about things that potentially could
happen back there I mean uh it is Big
property and you know I know you're
thinking of it just the trail but uh
might as well thank big Eric and see if
there's any other things that can happen
with it
um all right we're going to move on to
item 8h discussion of the Bunker Hill
Bridge construction so the only thing I
really wanted to say is that the
town
uh has recommended to the Department of
Transportation that SLR be retained for
the uh construction inspection and
construction management for the bridge
project um we did interview
four uh you know four
firms um and it took a while to get that
together because the do had to actually
approve the interview panel to make sure
that we had good enough interview ease
to make a decision that they would be
happy with um so we did do that we had
nine applications of which we
interviewed for
and we picked
SLR um primarily because the Chief
Inspector they have assigned to the
project has a really good track record
of getting things these things done um
you know relatively quickly and uh and
they keep the paperwork straight so um
we
we uh had the review panel we
recommended SLR the Department of
Transportation um said that's fine so
now we're we had the first scheduling
meeting uh with
SLR um between SLR close Jensen and
Miller and the do and myself um and now
we're waiting on SLR to get the the
paperwork back um before they can be
officially hired we are looking at
advertising this probably you know in
October time frame again for a February
16th or 15th start date so that project
is on
track um the only thing that is a
concern is that even though it is fully
funded from both the federal and state
dollars there is going to be a time
frame between when the State dollars and
federal dollars are applied for and when
they when we get reimbursed so we are
going to have to front the money um for
various different stages of this project
and we have to anticipate you know at
some points fronting up to a million
dollars so Cheryl and I have talked
about that Cheryl really thinks we want
a line of credit at a bank to do that as
opposed to just trying to take it out of
the uh you know the essentially
unexpended fund balance um so that's
going to be a conversation she's going
to be having with the board of Finance
about um you know the possibility for
doing that and we've got plenty of time
you know it's it's a long way off at
this
point questions on
that okay hearing
none let's Mo on to our next item
item nine approval of uh the meeting
minutes for our May 13 2024
meeting yeah yeah for the uh Park Dog
issues sorry you're right I did miss
that uh 8i uh dog and um litter
ordinance this is something we talked
about last meeting that we wanted to add
and and discuss about doing a minor
ordinance about the dogs on the field
so I thought we might want to include it
for some discussion
today I'm assuming they're dog there's
still dogs down there we're still
getting complaints from yeah I just I
saw a post today somebody had her doged
out on it was actually on the um the
softball
field they were in the fenon area on the
softball field so I don't know what's a
good solution to this but we should
probably have a quick discussion and
decide what we want to
do we also have a littering issue down
there people are dumping all kinds of
garbage down there
apparently yeah but that that's been
going on for years I know but I just
wonder if we should put some teeth into
it and then actually put some cameras up
there that can record this the
activity so well the question is I'm I'm
all for it the question is what is the
enforcement of it like what is the fine
what are we going to try to do and we
should think about that um
Jeff I'm all for it whatever I mean
what's an acceptable
fine the
100,000
$250 yeah probably something like
that two
yeah well let's find out if that's
acceptable on a minor ordinance
standpoint for the total dollars but I
listen I what whatever it is it's just
it's just how the enforcement policy of
it goes forward I mean that's really key
I just think we like dumping or
littering we probably should put
something in place too because I mean
we've had issues with people dumping
things and if we can find out who dumps
it and we can enforce you know some sort
of fine then I think I mean it would at
least cover the cost of Public Works
having to go clean up tires and other
kind of things that are dumped along
sides of the roadway like especially
where the rail trail is so so why don't
we
um
um Eric you and I can get with uh
attorney O'Brien between now and our
next meeting and try to draft something
that would be potentially acceptable to
everybody and let's talk to him about
what the maximum and minimum amount of
fees would be so we have him draft it
and then we plug in the fees that we
feel are appropriate so that we can
ticket someone yeah we just put signs
down thing like ordinance blah blah blah
$250 fine for littering or you know dogs
on the field and the signs up and they
break it and you know the the trooper
has some
teeth I do think though that one of that
is not what Dennis would consider a
minor ordinance I know basically said
anytime there's a fine involved that's
not a minor ordinance so that would have
to go to public meeting to approve and I
don't have a problem with that I'm just
I don't have a problem with it either
because I think the public at large is
probably in support of this so I I don't
think we have a problem getting that
past this is what we're attempting to
do
well it's something that's on the radar
so the issue ends up being when do we
want to go to public meeting with
something like this and is it the only
item that we're going to public meeting
with so um let let's get Dennis to draft
it and Dennis does have an issue of
minor and major ordinances and what
would be currently required to go to
town
meeting but yes we should be doing
things like this so let's let's get the
draft have Dennis advise us what he
thinks we should do and if we have to go
to a town meeting to get this passed
then
we'll we'll try to schedule it I think I
think there's enough people in town that
are for it that we would get enough
support to pass it so I think we should
just do it and get it get it drafted
let's just move ahead now were you
talking specifically on the field are
you talking townwide or what's your
range I mean I think I think I think the
thing for the dogs should be you
know I mean would we ENC incor Encompass
the school Community Center area because
I I don't know if we're going to allow
dogs to just I mean if people are going
to be using the community center area in
Recreation
then I think it should probably be Town
property I mean a town like we should
probably designate you know the ball
fields and probably the school proper
Town Hall complex I mean because I don't
have any problem with people taking dogs
on the trails on Town property but I
mean any place we have grass or a lawn
or people playing sports it's there
should probably be no dogs in the
area and the littering I think it should
be townwide like a dumping or a a
dumping or a littering ordinance would
probably be acceptable to me any I I
took a picture of a sign that's in
Windom um you know leash curb clean up
your dog it's required by law maximum
five $99 fine ordinance and you know
sections blah blah blah so they have it
in place down there uh Scott could you
send that to to Dennis so because I'm
sure Dennis would probably be familiar
with that so he could probably use that
as a the benchmark
he probably drew that up yep so it' be
something we could Benchmark off of it's
a nice picture I should send it to all
of you it's a picture of a dog and you
know the owner cleaning up after the dog
okay yeah CC Dennis too so he
knows all right I did notice I did take
a walk around the ball field with the
athletic
fields uh the other day and I did notice
on the outside of fents on the perimeter
alongside the river um at least four
instances of dog excrement uh that was
on the ground
so
well but I'd rather it on the outside
than the inside but yeah I just don't
want it on the playing the playing area
where there's you know there's people
going to be playing soccer and you know
softball and other I mean the picture I
saw today on Facebook had the dog was
right in the softball
complex so we need we need to address
it okay and that but I'm not sure we
have the authority to address that
because that's not our
property but aren't we don't we have a
use
agreement yeah but the use agreement
doesn't allow dogs on it yeah but we
should probably I mean we could probably
talk to hop River Homes and and work you
know I'm sure they don't want to see
dogs on the property either so they
would probably be supportive of anything
that we put up or an ordance they don't
want anybody over there but the girls
yep period so I I think they would be
supportive of whatever we did regarding
dogs
okay any other issues related to this
item no I just want to get the ball
rolling on it that's all let's go uh I
item N9 approval of meeting minutes from
2024 I make a motion to approve the
meeting minutes of May 13
2024 I'll second Scott seconded further
discussion all those in favor I
I okay the treasurer's report we did
that item uh item 11 the tax collector's
report
um I would tell you I liked the uh
information on the top delinquent
report very
enlightening
um yeah there's a lot of money to go
after okay okay anybody have any other
questions related to Tax Collector's
report a real lot of money to go after
yeah like almost a million with all the
fees extra
fees okay
um are there any refunds that we have to
approve
Eric uh I thought there was
one I'm going down through it hang on a
sec I guess I I do not see it so let's
say no
okay
um item 12 the departmental
reports cessor report anybody have any
questions related to any of the
individual
reports Eric did we ever get with the
assessor on a list of the largest
taxpayers for Motor Vehicles I did not I
did ask him for that but I don't have so
that's on me for not following them we
get that for the next
meeting anybody have any other questions
on any other reports that were
provided
okay um
I was I was at the transfer station on
Wednesday are are we having any issues
at the transfer station even though I
know it's not on this departmental
report are we good with coverage Eric
are you happy with where you're at yeah
we are good with coverage um Dominic's
supposed to be coming off is I gotta get
a release from him um
for we don't need he he's at the end of
his period when so he's technically
cleared by his doctor um understood we
don't need to talk about that stuff I
just want to know that you're good with
coverage yeah I'm good with coverage um
the one thing I do have to do is I have
to get off my ARs and sign the contract
uh for the renewal the transfer station
uh contract renewal um because that's
coming up as of July one
so have there been any significant
increases in the Tipping fees or
anything I mean I'm assuming that's the
contract you're talking about yeah I I
mean there the the biggest thing that is
up significantly is the cost to dispose
of
recycling um because the recycling
Market is basically tank and that's kind
of why we went to the separate compactor
or the separate dumpster for cardboard
um because they're taking cardboard away
essentially for free um so it doesn't
count for J onri Recycling so with that
I think we're keeping our costs down
fairly
reasonably um there are some escalators
built into there to to the contract
which I'm not really happy about but
they were all
negotiated uh with the waste management
Consortium that were part of which is
mid neok so I don't think we're going to
do any better and our cost per tonnage
to get rid of stuff is still lower than
uh most of the municipalities in
Connecticut in other words that contract
through cassella is still better then I
think we would get if we started
pursuing other options so um
okay uh anybody have any other questions
related to any of the Departments
all right we'll move on to item 133
correspondence any
correspondence no okay let's move on to
item 14 public speak we have uh Diane
grer is our loone
survivor there I am can you hear me now
we can oh good um I don't really have
anything um to say except the good
meeting you guys um conduct a very good
meeting I'm always impressed with uh how
you keep it to the point you don't get
sidetracked uh very professional and um
makes us proud thank you very much
um good job thank you um thank you Diane
I would I would like to a little shout
out to
um the residents who are trying to make
some little parts of our town a little
prettier there's some flowers that
hopefully will Bloom and and look very
nicely and I think the picture
that I took what did it
say
um one
second oh here it
is picture
said this Garden was created by
volunteers for the enjoyment of all and
Diane thank you very much
oh I understand from what I hear um
there were there were 16
volunteers uh that planted that Garden
in an hour and a
half it would they did a really good job
and we are now currently looking for
somebody to volunteer to mulch it donate
Mulch and spread the mulch on the on the
um Over the Garden so they say it be a
thing of beauty next year for sure hey
Dian I just have a quick question for
you did does anybody contact the dot to
make sure that they don't mow that
section it looks like a freaking Garden
if they they well from I just people
just do crazy stuff and and then they're
I just want to make sure that they don't
mow it okay accident I I I heard that it
was being mowed by the neighbor across
the
street is who had been doing the mowing
on that that piece of property because
it wasn't being mowed properly okay I
just don't want to make sure that
somebody doesn't destroy your hard work
that's all just it wasn't my hard work
because I didn't I don't you you were
the organizer so I don't get my hand
dirty I don't get my hands dirty the
organizer I just sure nobody destroys
anybody's hard work I want it to be I
want it to be known that I did not sit
there and single out Diane as as one of
the
volunteers just make Point Clear we
don't want get we don't want to get
anyone in trouble we want to support
Good Deeds by our volunteers and Eric if
you could please make sure that the
state allows the flowers to bloom it
would be appreciated and make sure that
our own intern group doesn't you know
let's see what it looks like yeah
because if it's a town I just wonder if
it's a Town Road and it's forking right
there is that town property or is that
State Property I think that was the
basic original question yeah that's why
I'm just I'm not sure that's why I was
wondering the is the issue was is that
state right away or town right away and
to ask permission was way too hard for
either one of those two groups so um
it's from what I understand it's called
gorilla gardening where um you plant a
garden on property you don't own and
there were many people in town there
were 10 more people who said they were
going to come and didn't show up that
day so we were going to have 26 people
there planting that little
strip it it was a wonderful thing PE
people really took to that and I've had
lots of suggestions on where I should be
planting other gorilla Gardens and
that's not going to happen
so I I would just say if you're going to
be planting around other Town
buildings before you do it check in with
the beautification commission because I
don't want to get in another case where
somebody does something really nice for
the community and then the
beautification commission gets all
pissed off rips out everything they've
done and redid it their own way which
has happened now twice um so I
appreciate everything you've done done
it looks fabulous um and I'm all for it
but just I'm not the one you have to
worry about pissing off with the
beautification committee I understand uh
the beautification committee was on
board and notified about this so they
were yes and I have been asked to plant
blackeyed Susan's down at the Monument
Park right over here by this little
thing it would
look no like I say I'm not a gardener my
my garden skills go to you dig in the
dirt till you find a worm and then you
go fishing
that's I don't guard the other things I
was going to say you should consider is
that several of the manufacturers make a
wildflower mix that was suggested and
that's one good way to get a wildflower
patch established the problem is over
time like it looks really good the first
three or four years and then more and
more we weeds keep getting so it's like
but for a short term for a couple of
years you can make something look really
fantastic that way in the future okay um
one of the places that was pointed out
to me which I'm not going to do is in
front of the public works department
where the the big orange plow is there's
sidewalks and there's some funky little
it's like two foot piece of
grass that gets m i mean it's very small
and which would be a great place to
Garden on but I think what why is that
little grassy area there why isn't it
this
sidewalk you
know that's a very good question and
I've asked myself that question numerous
times I've been grouped by
it all right Diane thank you very much
for that uh enlightening public speak it
was wonderful okay thank thank you all
for all you do and thank you for having
the zoom meetings so that I am able to
um catch up on all the good things that
are happening in our town thank you
you're welcome I don't think there's
anyone else for public speak so um if
there's no one
else
whoops
my phone decided it didn't want to work
with
me so we are now on
to and and Eric that's whole just as a
side thing the whole
state
um document in our agenda package
um the um legislative actions uh very
very helpful um interesting to read just
as a side note so we're moving on to um
item 16 uh
adjournment motion I move toj all right
before we leave I just want to say I
think I sent an email out that I won't
be around next month um I'll be in
Iceland in the Wilds of the middle of
Iceland and I'm not going to be able to
zoom in from there no so it won't be
around next month all right appreciate
that and yes we did I did see that so no
problem have fun an don't the
volcano no no we're going into the
center of the country the volcano is way
off on the western
edge make sure you go to the Blue Lagoon
or go to a hot spring we're gonna go to
Hot Springs just not the Blue Lagoon but
go to to commercial you got it okay um
who seconded the adjournment I'll second
it Jeff muray did okay all right uh all
those in favor I I very much enjoy your
evening you too cheers yep